All right, let's go ahead and move
on to the next challenge
that we have in front of us.
And that says you're creating a tea
menu board and each
item must be numbered.
Task use enumerate to print
the menu with the numbers.
Now this is a very interesting
problem because we have a new
keyword here which is enumerate.
And as you can see, I
have opened up the docs.
I'll come back onto
the docs in a second.
First of all, let's see what
is the problem and how we
can actually deal with that.
Just like we saw that we have
orders here, let's go ahead
and create a new file and see
what is exactly the problem.
Why can't we deal with this problem
using the classic for loop?
So let's just say I create a new
one and call this one as 04.
Yep, that's the number.
And we'll be call this
one as tea menu py.
Let's just say we have a simple
menu, we call it like this.
And this menu has lot
of items of list.
For example, there might be
a green green T for that,
we might have lemon for lemon T,
which is my favorite one.
We also might have spiced one
which is pretty good.
I like that part too.
And we can have a mint too as well.
Not one of my favorite, but still
we have now we can definitely
go ahead and create a variable
for In menu just like this.
And we can definitely go
ahead and print this.
And you have seen this.
And we can call this
one as menu item is.
And then I can use curly braces and I
can just put a Here for this menu.
This has no problem.
You might be wondering, yeah,
we have studied this and this works
absolutely fine.
And you are correct.
This works absolutely fine.
We can just verify that
by running this.
So we can see that the menu
item is green spice lemon.
Everything is good.
But what the question says is
each item must be numbered.
So right now I have this list
or an array and I know that this
is my 0th position, this is
my first position, second
position, and third position.
But I have no way of right
now printing out the numbers
of each of these item.
And for exactly this problem,
the enumerate function is utilized.
If you study the docs of this
enumerate, you're going to see
that we have the seasons.
This is exactly like
the problem statement that
we have in front of us.
Now we can go ahead
and create a list out of it.
Notice here the list and in the list
we are using this enumerate method
for this seasons and what we
get back of course it's a list.
So outer one is the list, we
get a list and inside this
we get each of the item being
numbered automatically.
So the spring gets zero, one gets
summer, or summer gets one,
fall gets two and three gets winter.
And notice here it says
enumerate and I can still give
the season and I can say hey, I want
to start with one, I don't
want to start with zero.
So this is also pretty
good, we can just go ahead
and start just like that.
So this is one of the way of how
you actually work with enumerate.
So this is one example that
is being given to us.
And surely numerate has more things
like it has a next take, it can
used as a generator,
iterators and lot of things we will
study about them later on.
But one of the another way this
is already you have seen, so no
need to discuss more on this.
Another way of handling this
is something like this.
So instead of printing it like this,
I can actually declare two variable.
The first one is index.
You can write the whole
index or IDX for short.
It doesn't really matter,
it's a variable name.
And the next thing that I'll say
is item and then I'll use the same
in and now interestingly I can
use enumerate and, and in this
enumerate I can pass on two things.
The first one is menu
and as we just saw we don't want
to start with zero.
So I'll just create a variable
which is start and I'll
provide start my value 1.
Now as we just saw here
in the enumerate portion
that now the value can start
with 1, 2 and all of that.
But when you loop through with
an enumerated list you can actually
use two variables because
notice here this is a tuple.
So every time the value gets
returned to you it's two set
of values one and two.
So this is our IDX or index
and this is our value itself.
So that is why I have two
variable here, IDX and item.
Once I'm here I can just go ahead
and use the classic print
statement with the formatted
string and I can say something
like this, this is going to put my
index and I'll just say item just
like this and chai.
So this is how we construct our menu.
Now if I run this program again,
you'll notice that the first
is greench, the second is lemon chai
the third is Spiced Chai
and the fourth is Mint chai.
So how nicely we have handled this
problem because we knew about
one more thing in our programming
tool belt, which is Enumerate.
It's a pretty interesting,
very powerful thing, and I highly
recommend to at least check
out this example as well.
This is a pretty beautiful example.
We are not yet capable
of understanding this yield yet,
but surely it will come on later on.
We are not skipping anything
in this course,
so I hope you have enjoyed this.
And Enumerate is actually
fun and pretty easy
to understand, especially after
watching this video.
Let's catch up in the next video.